.\"	$Id$
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017--2021 Kristaps Dzonsons <kristaps@bsd.lv>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt LOWDOWN_NROFF_RNDR 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mdown_nroff_rndr
.Nd render Markdown into roff
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libmdown
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/queue.h
.In stdio.h
.In mdown.h
.Ft int
.Fo mdown_nroff_rndr
.Fa "struct mdown_buf *out"
.Fa "void *arg"
.Fa "const struct mdown_node *n"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Renders a node tree
.Fa n
created by
.Xr mdown_doc_parse 3
or
.Xr mdown_diff 3
using the roff renderer
.Fa arg
as returned by
.Xr mdown_nroff_new 3 .
The output is written into
.Fa out ,
which must be initialised and freed by the caller.
.Pp
The output consists of roff output using the
.Ar ms
or
.Ar man
macro packages.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Returns zero on failure to allocate memory, non-zero on success.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following parses
.Va b
of length
.Va bsz
and outputs in
.Xr groff_ms 7
format.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
struct mdown_buf *out;
struct mdown_doc *doc;
struct mdown_node *n;
void *rndr;

if ((doc = mdown_doc_new(NULL)) == NULL)
	err(1, NULL);
if ((n = mdown_doc_parse(doc, NULL, b, bsz, NULL)) == NULL)
	err(1, NULL);
if ((out = mdown_buf_new(256)) == NULL)
	err(1, NULL);
if ((rndr = mdown_nroff_new(NULL)) == NULL)
	err(1, NULL);
if (!mdown_nroff_rndr(out, rndr, n))
	err(1, NULL);

fwrite(out->data, 1, out->size, stdout);

mdown_nroff_free(rndr);
mdown_buf_free(out);
mdown_node_free(n);
mdown_doc_free(doc);
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mdown 3 ,
.Xr mdown_nroff_free 3 ,
.Xr mdown_nroff_new 3
.Pp
This uses both the original troff
.Ar man
macros for
.At v7 ,
defined in
.Xr man 7 ,
and the
.Ar man-ext
groff extensions.
Both are implemented in mandoc.
.Pp
The troff
.Ar ms
macros are defined in
.Xr groff_ms 7 ,
with the
.Ar mspdf
groff extensions described in
.Qq Portable Document Format Publishing with GNU Troff
by Keith Marshall.
Neither are implemented in mandoc.
